# Why

Conway’s Law drives and constrains the productivity of firms, teams and employees.  Conway's Law is an observation taken from Melvin Conway’s paper on [How Do Committees Invent](http://www.melconway.com/research/committees.html) published in Datamation magazine in April 1968.  In the five decades since, overwhelming numbers of project leaders and entrepreneurs have pointed to transoformationals organizations such as Netflix and Amazon and have confirmed the essential operational truth of the phenomenon of the observation in their working experience that:

*Any organization that designs a system (defined more broadly here than just information systems) will inevitably produce a design whose structure is a copy of the organization’s communication structure.*   

Eric S. Raymond pithily summarized this phenomenon in [The New Hacker’s Dictionary](http://www.proselex.net/documents/the%20new%20hacker's%20dictionary.pdf) by giving a simple, practical example: “If you have four groups working on a compiler, you’ll get a 4-pass compiler.”  Raymond also went on to note Tom Cheatham's amendment of his compiler example: "If a group of N persons implements a COBOL compiler, there will be N-1 passes. Someone in the group has to be the manager."  

It would be fair enough to adjust the observation slightly to observe that an organization's communication structure is the principal driving factor in the design of the product structure of that organization.  But the products of an organization are not just the things that customers buy -- employee skills and behaviors are ALSO molded and produced by organizations.  

For example, the Navy SEALS not only provide defense and security for the United States -- that branch of the military also produces people who are thoroughly programmed to be SEALs ... just as bureaucracies produce burecrats ... the ivory tower produces academics ... IBM produces IBMers ... churches produce church-goers ... organizations produce an organizational mindSET.  Human beings have a tendency to become set in their ways, to rely on habits that are comfortable and sufficiently productive. Changing habits and retraining the mind is possible, but we don't usually see people change until AFTER they change their organizational and relationship statuses.
